docs/across-web/chap-view-engines.adoc, before:

[#view-engines]
== View engines

[#thymeleaf-support]
=== Thymeleaf support
AcrossWebModule automatically activates http://www.thymeleaf.org[Thymeleaf] support for server-side templating.
Thymeleaf is a powerful templating language that allows its templates to be embedded inside the JAR files (something that is more cumbersome with regular JSP).

AcrossWebModule itself - as well as many other modules - use Thymeleaf extensively and add additional features for it (like <<thymeleaf-dialect,custom dialects>>).

The Thymeleaf templates embedded in modules are expected to be located in the *views/th/__moduleResourceKey__* resources folder.
The supported file extension is **.html*.
See the chapter on <<conventions,static resource conventions>> for an example project layout.

[#jsp-support]
=== JSP support
Support for regular JSP/JSTL can be enabled by setting the property *acrossWebModule.views.jsp.enabled* to `true`.

==== Combining JSP and Thymeleaf
If both JSP and Thymeleaf support are enabled, you can easily use both view types at the same time.
The AcrossWebModule also provides a JSP tag that can be used to import Thymeleaf templates or fragments in a JSP rendering pipeline.
The same model (request attributes) should be available in the Thymeleaf template as in the calling JSP.

[source,html,indent=0]
----
<%@ taglib prefix="across" uri="http://across.foreach.com/tags" %>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
	<title>JSP including a Thymeleaf template</title>
</head>
<body>
	<across:thymeleaf template="th/mymodule/thymeleaf-from-jsp-include" />
	<div class="child">
		<across:thymeleaf template="th/mymodule/thymeleaf-from-jsp-include :: fragment" />
	</div>
</body>
</html>
----

[discrete]
=== Using other templating engines
It is still possible to use additional templating engines.
You can do so by extending the AcrossWebModule configuration and registering custom Spring `ViewResolver` beans.

Commit message:

AX-197 always add Java 8 Time dialect for Thymeleaf

docs/across-web/chap-view-engines.adoc, after:

[#view-engines]
== View engines

[#thymeleaf-support]
=== Thymeleaf support
AcrossWebModule automatically activates http://www.thymeleaf.org[Thymeleaf] support for server-side templating.
Thymeleaf is a powerful templating language that allows its templates to be embedded inside the JAR files (something that is more cumbersome with regular JSP).

AcrossWebModule itself - as well as many other modules - use Thymeleaf extensively and add additional features for it (like <<thymeleaf-dialect,custom dialects>>).

When Thymeleaf support is enabled, the https://github.com/thymeleaf/thymeleaf-extras-java8time[Thymeleaf Java 8 Time dialect] is also included.

The Thymeleaf templates embedded in modules are expected to be located in the *views/th/__moduleResourceKey__* resources folder.
The supported file extension is **.html*.
See the chapter on <<conventions,static resource conventions>> for an example project layout.

[#jsp-support]
=== JSP support
Support for regular JSP/JSTL can be enabled by setting the property *acrossWebModule.views.jsp.enabled* to `true`.

==== Combining JSP and Thymeleaf
If both JSP and Thymeleaf support are enabled, you can easily use both view types at the same time.
The AcrossWebModule also provides a JSP tag that can be used to import Thymeleaf templates or fragments in a JSP rendering pipeline.
The same model (request attributes) should be available in the Thymeleaf template as in the calling JSP.

[source,html,indent=0]
----
<%@ taglib prefix="across" uri="http://across.foreach.com/tags" %>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
	<title>JSP including a Thymeleaf template</title>
</head>
<body>
	<across:thymeleaf template="th/mymodule/thymeleaf-from-jsp-include" />
	<div class="child">
		<across:thymeleaf template="th/mymodule/thymeleaf-from-jsp-include :: fragment" />
	</div>
</body>
</html>
----

[discrete]
=== Using other templating engines
It is still possible to use additional templating engines.
You can do so by extending the AcrossWebModule configuration and registering custom Spring `ViewResolver` beans.
