docs/modules/across-web/pages/web-views/links-and-urls.adoc, before:

:page-partial:
[#generating-urls]
== Generating URLs

[[web-app-path-resolver]]
[#web-app-path-resolver-and-path-prefixing]
=== WebAppPathResolver and path prefixing
Across Web introduces the `<<prefixed-request-mappings,PrefixingRequestMappingHandlerMapping>>`.
This allows `@RequestMapping` methods to be prefixed at runtime, based on configuration.

Some standard Across modules like AdminWebModule and DebugWebModule make use of this functionality.

Because the actual relative path of a controller is then not known during development, you can define a relative path with a prefix.
If you provide your path to the `WebAppPathResolver` bean, the prefix will then be replaced at runtime by the final path.

The <<thymeleaf-dialect,AcrossWebModule Thymeleaf dialect>> integrates with the `WebAppPathResolver` so prefix based paths are supported directly in templates.

NOTE: If you want to ensure your relative path is never prefixed, start it with an exclamation mark (!).

==== Default prefixes
Across Web registers default prefixers for static resources:

[cols="1,3",options=header]
|===

| Name
| Target

|*@resource*
|Static resources in the root resources folder.

|*@static*
|Static resources in the _static_ subfolder.
This is a short-hand for _@resource:/static/<path>_

|===

==== Path resolving examples
The examples assume that _res_ is the configured *acrossWebModule.resources.path*:

[cols="1,3",options=header]
|===

| Input
| Output

|_/my/path_
|_/my/path_

|_@resource:/my/path_
|_/res/my/path_

|_@static:/my/path?id=10#home_
|_/res/static/my/path?id=10#home_

|_redirect:@resource/my/path_
|_redirect:/res/my.path_

|_!@resource/my/path_
|_@resource/my/path_

|===

==== Registering your own prefixing handler mapping and resolver
See `PrefixingHandlerMappingConfiguration` and `PrefixingPathContext`.

[#web-app-link-builder]
=== WebAppLinkBuilder
The `WebAppPathResolver` will only replace the relative path prefix, but to generate a valid application link you would still need to prepend the possible context path as wel as encode the URL.
If you want to generate a complete link from code, you can use the `WebAppLinkBuilder` bean.

WARNING: You should only use the the `WebAppLinkBuilder` if your links will not be processed additionally.
To generate redirect paths, or links for a `spring:url` or Thymeleaf link builder `@{}`, use the `WebAppPathResolver`. +
 +
Otherwise you could end up with links having the context path added twice.

Commit message:

Across core webjars: - Moved webjars to links-and-urls - Changed module settings path

docs/modules/across-web/pages/web-views/links-and-urls.adoc, after:

:page-partial:
[#generating-urls]
== Generating URLs

[[web-app-path-resolver]]
[#web-app-path-resolver-and-path-prefixing]
=== WebAppPathResolver and path prefixing
Across Web introduces the `<<prefixed-request-mappings,PrefixingRequestMappingHandlerMapping>>`.
This allows `@RequestMapping` methods to be prefixed at runtime, based on configuration.

Some standard Across modules like AdminWebModule and DebugWebModule make use of this functionality.

Because the actual relative path of a controller is then not known during development, you can define a relative path with a prefix.
If you provide your path to the `WebAppPathResolver` bean, the prefix will then be replaced at runtime by the final path.

The <<thymeleaf-dialect,AcrossWebModule Thymeleaf dialect>> integrates with the `WebAppPathResolver` so prefix based paths are supported directly in templates.

NOTE: If you want to ensure your relative path is never prefixed, start it with an exclamation mark (!).

[[default-prefixes]]
==== Default prefixes
Across Web registers default prefixers for static resources:

[cols="1,3",options=header]
|===

| Name
| Target

|*@resource*
|Static resources in the root resources folder.

|*@static*
|Static resources in the _static_ subfolder.
This is a short-hand for _@resource:/static/<path>_

|*@webjars*
|Takes a relative path to a webjar. By default mapped to `/webjars` but can be changed by setting the xref:across-web:configuration/module-settings.adoc[webjar path].

For example `_<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" th:href="@{@webjars:/bootstrap/3.1.0/ss/bootstrap.min.css}"/>_`
becomes: `_<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/webjars/bootstrap/3.1.0/css/bootstrap.min.css">_`

|===

==== Path resolving examples
The examples assume that _res_ is the configured *acrossWebModule.resources.path*:

[cols="1,3",options=header]
|===

| Input
| Output

|_/my/path_
|_/my/path_

|_@resource:/my/path_
|_/res/my/path_

|_@static:/my/path?id=10#home_
|_/res/static/my/path?id=10#home_

|_redirect:@resource/my/path_
|_redirect:/res/my.path_

|_!@resource/my/path_
|_@resource/my/path_

|===

==== Registering your own prefixing handler mapping and resolver
See `PrefixingHandlerMappingConfiguration` and `PrefixingPathContext`.

[#web-app-link-builder]
=== WebAppLinkBuilder
The `WebAppPathResolver` will only replace the relative path prefix, but to generate a valid application link you would still need to prepend the possible context path as wel as encode the URL.
If you want to generate a complete link from code, you can use the `WebAppLinkBuilder` bean.

WARNING: You should only use the the `WebAppLinkBuilder` if your links will not be processed additionally.
To generate redirect paths, or links for a `spring:url` or Thymeleaf link builder `@{}`, use the `WebAppPathResolver`. +
 +
Otherwise you could end up with links having the context path added twice.
