docs/developing-modules/chap-module-installers.adoc, before:

[[installers]]
[#installers]
== Installers
A module can have one or more installer classes.
The purpose of installers is setup data that modules need, before the actual application takes over.
Examples: creating database schema, installing default or test data...

An `@Installer` annotation marks a class as an installer and allows you to specify the important installer attributes.

|===
|attribute |description

|*name*
|Optional (unique) name of the installer.
If not specified, the fully qualified class name of the installer class will be used.

|*description*
|Descriptive text of what will be installed.

|*phase*
|When this installer should run during the context bootstrap.
See link:index.adoc#installer-bootstrap-phases[bootstrap phases].

|*runCondition*
|Condition when this installer should run.  See <<installer-run-conditions,run conditions>>.

|*version*
|Version number of the installer.
This value should be incremented to enforce a new run of the same installer.
Only relevant if the run condition is `VersionDifferent`.

|===

[discrete]
=== Installer detection
By default installers are detected from the classpath by scanning the *installers* package relative to the package of the `AcrossModule`.
Changing the packages to scan for installers can be done by overriding the `getInstallerScanPackages()` method on `AcrossModule`.

NOTE:  If you manually want to specify a list of installers, you can do so by overriding the `getInstallers()` method.
Though still possible for compatibility reasons, installers should be specified with their `Class`.

[discrete]
=== Installer tracking and synchronization
The execution of installers is tracked using the `AcrossInstallerRepository`.
This allows for installers to execute only if they have not yet been executed (see <<installer-run-conditions,run conditions>>).

In addition, installer execution is synchronized for multiple applications connecting on the same database.
This is done through the `DistributedLockRepository` that is created in the core schema.
A lock will be taken on the database as soon as a single installer wishes to execute, and will be released once that installer has finished executing.

The lock owner will contain the hostname of the computer running the application, as well as the `displayName` of the `AcrossContext`.

Because of tracking and synchronization, a <<installer-datasource,datasource>> is required in order to execute installers.

NOTE: The `AcrossInstallerRepository` can be wired as a bean in installers.
This can be helpful in migration trajectories for example to rename installers.

[[installer-bootstrap-phases]]
[#installer-bootstrap-phases]
[discrete]
=== Bootstrap phases
Installers are executed during a specific phase of the context bootstrap.
This phase should be specified for every installer.
The phase will determine which beans are available in the installer.

The following bootstrap phases exist:

BeforeContextBootstrap::
The installer is executed before any of the modules in the AcrossContext are bootstrapped.
Only beans from the parent `ApplicationContext` or the <<installer-applicationcontext,installer `ApplicationContext`>> are available.

BeforeModuleBootstrap::
The installer is executed before the module that owns it bootstraps, but after all previous modules have bootstrapped.
All beans from previous modules will also be available to the installer.

AfterModuleBootstrap::
The installer is executed after the module that owns it has bootstrapped, but before the next module bootstraps.
All beans from the current module are available.

AfterContextBootstrap::
The installer is executed after all modules have bootstrapped, but before the `AcrossContextBootstrappedEvent` is published.
All beans from all modules are available.

[[installer-run-conditions]]
[#installer-run-conditions]
[discrete]
=== Run conditions
The following run conditions are supported for an installer:

AlwaysRun::
The installer will always be executed, everytime the module bootstraps.

VersionDifferent::
The installer will only execute if the _version_ attribute is higher than the version previously executed.

In addition to the standard run conditions, you can use <<installer-conditionals,`@Conditional` annotations on installer classes>>.
This includes for example the use of `@ConditionalOnAcrossModule` to execute installers if certain modules are active.

WARNING: Using *AlwaysRun* installers will always cause the bootstrap lock to be taken.
 This might cause a slowdown when starting multiple applications on the same datasource simultaneously.

[discrete]
=== Installer group
In addition to the standard `@Installer` attributes, an `@InstallerGroup` annotation can be specified.
This allows grouping types of installers together (for example schema) and overruling their execution using <<installer-settings,`InstallerSettings`>>.

[discrete]
=== Installer execution order
If all conditions are fulfilled, installers will be executed in a predetermined order:

. in <<installer-bootstrap-phases,bootstrap phase>> order
. in <<developing-applications.adoc#module-bootstrap-order,module bootstrap order>>
. in installer order (according to `@Order` annotations on the installer class)

WARNING: Installers without an `@Order` annotation behave as if they have an order index of *0*.
In that case the installer registration order will be used as a fallback, with installers specified through `getInstallers()` having a higher precedence.

[[installer-datasource]]
[#installer-datasource]
[discrete]
=== Datasources and installers
An `AcrossContext` requires at least one datasource if modules need to run installers.
Certain core features like the `DistributedLockRepository` also require the core schema to be installed and will require a valid datasource to be configured.

The main datasource is available for all modules as a bean named `acrossDataSource`.
Optionally a separate installer datasource can be configured that will be available as `acrossInstallerDataSource`.
If no separate installer datasource is specified, the default across datasource will be used.

IMPORTANT: A valid default datasource is always required for installers to run.
It is not possible to configure only an installer datasource as the distributed locking mechanism uses the default datasource.

The installer datasource is the default datasource used for all `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller` instances.

[[installer-applicationcontext]]
[#installer-applicationcontext]
[discrete]
=== Installer ApplicationContext
If installers need to be run for a module, a specific `ApplicationContext` is created in which the installers will be wired as beans.
This `ApplicationContext` can exist before the actual module `ApplicationContext` does.
However, all beans from the parent Across context and the module context - when created - are available in installers.

Installer contexts are temporary, once the Across context has bootstrapped they are closed.
Configuration and other annotated classes can be added to the installer context by using `ApplicationContextConfigurer` implementations, either on the `AcrossContext` or on an `AcrossModule`.

By default, the package *installers.config* relative to the module package will be scanned for beans to be added to the installer `ApplicationContext`.

.Example using different datasource inside the modules
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
@Configuration
class Config implements AcrossContextConfigurer
{
    /**
     * Installer tracking will be done on this datasource.
     */
    @Bean
    public EmbeddedDatabase acrossDataSource() {
        return new EmbeddedDatabaseBuilder()
                .setType( EmbeddedDatabaseType.HSQL )
                .setName( "core" )
                .build();
    }

    @Bean
    public EmbeddedDatabase moduleDataSource() {
        return new EmbeddedDatabaseBuilder()
                .setType( EmbeddedDatabaseType.HSQL )
                .setName( "data" )
                .build();
    }

    @Override
    public void configure( AcrossContext context ) {
        ProvidedBeansMap beans = new ProvidedBeansMap();
        beans.put( AcrossContext.DATASOURCE, new PrimarySingletonBean( moduleDataSource() ) );
        beans.put( AcrossContext.INSTALLER_DATASOURCE, moduleDataSource() );

        context.addApplicationContextConfigurer( new ProvidedBeansConfigurer( beans ),
                                                 ConfigurerScope.MODULES_ONLY );
        context.addInstallerContextConfigurer( new ProvidedBeansConfigurer( beans ) );
    }
}
----

NOTE: The installer context has no web support as it is a direct implementation of `AcrossApplicationContext` but does not implement `WebApplicationContext`.

[[installer-conditionals]]
[#installer-conditionals]
Installers are registered as bean definitions in the installer `ApplicationContext`.
You can use any Spring `@Conditional` annotations to suppress installer execution, even if the run conditions are fulfilled.

NOTE: When registering bean definitions to the installer context, a good practice is to demarcate beans as `@Lazy`.
 In that case they will never get created if the installer conditionals fail.

[discrete]
=== AcrossLiquibaseInstaller
Across core comes with an `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller` class.
This is an abstract base class for executing liquibase XML resources.
Simply extending the base class and annotating as installer will execute an XML resource in the same package as the installer class against the installer datasource.

.Example using different datasource inside the modules
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
package my.package;

@Installer(description = "Liquibase installer", runCondition = InstallerRunCondition.AlwaysRun)
public class LiquibaseInstaller extends AcrossLiquibaseInstaller
{
    // Will execute the resource file 'my/package/LiquibaseInstaller.xml'
    // As liquibase has its own locking mechanism, we can safely always run (even though you should avoid this when possible)

}
----

[discrete]
==== SchemaConfiguration
An `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller` will use a `SchemaConfiguration` bean to configure its default schema and pass configuration properties.
A `SchemaConfiguration` for the current module will be looked up first, if none is found a default bean will be used if it exists.

The default `SchemaConfiguration` is a bean without any `@Module` annotations.
The presence of a `@Module` annotation marks that `SchemaConfiguration` as applying only for that particular module.

If no default or module `SchemaConfiguration` is found, the installer will continue without setting a default schema.

WARNING: Adding `SchemaConfiguration` beans to a context directly via a `ProvidedBeansConfigurer` erases the visibility of bean declaration annotations.

.Example of a configuration class defining some `SchemaConfiguration` beans
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
package my.package;

@EnableAcrossContext
@Configuration
public class SchemaConfig
{
    /**
     * AcrossLiquibaseInstaller in the QuotationModule will automatically pick up this SchemaConfiguration.
     * Liquibase scripts will run with 'MY_QUOTATIONS' as their default schema.
     */
     @Bean
     @Module( "QuotationModule" )
     public SchemaConfiguration userSchemaConfiguration() {
        return new SchemaConfiguration( "MY_QUOTATIONS" );
     }

     /**
      * This is the default SchemaConfiguration.
      * AcrossLiquibaseInstaller in other module will pick up this SchemaConfiguration.
      */
     @Bean
     public SchemaConfiguration defaultSchemaConfiguration() {
        return new SchemaConfiguration( "MY_SCHEMA" );
     }
}
----

.Fixing a default schema
Alternatively the `SchemaConfiguration` bean schema can be ignored and a default schema fixed on the `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller`.
This is done in the installer implementation through the `setDefaultSchema()` method.

.Example fixed schema configuration using `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller#setDefaultSchema`
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
package my.package;

/**
 * Liquibase script of this installer will run with 'IM_SPECIAL' as default schema.
 * Regardless of any defined SchemaConfiguration.
 */
@Installer(description = "Liquibase installer", runCondition = InstallerRunCondition.AlwaysRun)
public class SpecialSchemaInstaller extends AcrossLiquibaseInstaller
{
    public SpecialSchemaInstaller() {
        setDefaultSchema( "IM_SPECIAL" );
    }
}
----

[[installer-settings]]
[#installer-settings]
[discrete]
=== InstallerSettings
For advanced configuration, both `AcrossContext` and `AcrossModule` allow `InstallerSettings` to be set.
`InstallerSettings` can be used to set the action (eg. force executed, skip) to be performed for one or more installers or installer groups.

`InstallerSettings` accepts an `InstallerActionResolver` for determining install action at runtime.
Alternatively an installer can implement `InstallerActionResolver` that will be used in a second stage only if the original action is `EXECUTE`.

Please refer to the javadoc for more information.

Commit message:

Refactored developing-modules.adoc to use developing-modules/index.adoc - Developing applications: @AcrossApplication (links to spring-boot autoconfiguration) + exclude attribute - Developing modules: @InstallerMethod

docs/developing-modules/chap-module-installers.adoc, after:

[[installers]]
[#installers]
== Installers
A module can have one or more installer classes.
The purpose of installers is setup data that modules need, before the actual application takes over.
Examples: creating database schema, installing default or test data...

An `@Installer` annotation marks a class as an installer and allows you to specify the important installer attributes.

|===
|attribute |description

|*name*
|Optional (unique) name of the installer.
If not specified, the fully qualified class name of the installer class will be used.

|*description*
|Descriptive text of what will be installed.

|*phase*
|When this installer should run during the context bootstrap.
See link:index.adoc#installer-bootstrap-phases[bootstrap phases].

|*runCondition*
|Condition when this installer should run.  See <<installer-run-conditions,run conditions>>.

|*version*
|Version number of the installer.
This value should be incremented to enforce a new run of the same installer.
Only relevant if the run condition is `VersionDifferent`.

|===

An `@InstallerMethod` annotation marks a method within an `@Installer` marked class as a method that should be executed when the installer is executed.
Using the *required* attribute, it is possible to define the method's parameters as optional, which means they will not be autowired if they are not found.

[discrete]
=== Installer detection
By default installers are detected from the classpath by scanning the *installers* package relative to the package of the `AcrossModule`.
Changing the packages to scan for installers can be done by overriding the `getInstallerScanPackages()` method on `AcrossModule`.

NOTE:  If you manually want to specify a list of installers, you can do so by overriding the `getInstallers()` method.
Though still possible for compatibility reasons, installers should be specified with their `Class`.

[discrete]
=== Installer tracking and synchronization
The execution of installers is tracked using the `AcrossInstallerRepository`.
This allows for installers to execute only if they have not yet been executed (see <<installer-run-conditions,run conditions>>).

In addition, installer execution is synchronized for multiple applications connecting on the same database.
This is done through the `DistributedLockRepository` that is created in the core schema.
A lock will be taken on the database as soon as a single installer wishes to execute, and will be released once that installer has finished executing.

The lock owner will contain the hostname of the computer running the application, as well as the `displayName` of the `AcrossContext`.

Because of tracking and synchronization, a <<installer-datasource,datasource>> is required in order to execute installers.

NOTE: The `AcrossInstallerRepository` can be wired as a bean in installers.
This can be helpful in migration trajectories for example to rename installers.

[[installer-bootstrap-phases]]
[#installer-bootstrap-phases]
[discrete]
=== Bootstrap phases
Installers are executed during a specific phase of the context bootstrap.
This phase should be specified for every installer.
The phase will determine which beans are available in the installer.

The following bootstrap phases exist:

BeforeContextBootstrap::
The installer is executed before any of the modules in the AcrossContext are bootstrapped.
Only beans from the parent `ApplicationContext` or the <<installer-applicationcontext,installer `ApplicationContext`>> are available.

BeforeModuleBootstrap::
The installer is executed before the module that owns it bootstraps, but after all previous modules have bootstrapped.
All beans from previous modules will also be available to the installer.

AfterModuleBootstrap::
The installer is executed after the module that owns it has bootstrapped, but before the next module bootstraps.
All beans from the current module are available.

AfterContextBootstrap::
The installer is executed after all modules have bootstrapped, but before the `AcrossContextBootstrappedEvent` is published.
All beans from all modules are available.

[[installer-run-conditions]]
[#installer-run-conditions]
[discrete]
=== Run conditions
The following run conditions are supported for an installer:

AlwaysRun::
The installer will always be executed, everytime the module bootstraps.

VersionDifferent::
The installer will only execute if the _version_ attribute is higher than the version previously executed.

In addition to the standard run conditions, you can use <<installer-conditionals,`@Conditional` annotations on installer classes>>.
This includes for example the use of `@ConditionalOnAcrossModule` to execute installers if certain modules are active.

WARNING: Using *AlwaysRun* installers will always cause the bootstrap lock to be taken.
 This might cause a slowdown when starting multiple applications on the same datasource simultaneously.

[discrete]
=== Installer group
In addition to the standard `@Installer` attributes, an `@InstallerGroup` annotation can be specified.
This allows grouping types of installers together (for example schema) and overruling their execution using <<installer-settings,`InstallerSettings`>>.

[discrete]
=== Installer execution order
If all conditions are fulfilled, installers will be executed in a predetermined order:

. in <<installer-bootstrap-phases,bootstrap phase>> order
. in <<developing-applications.adoc#module-bootstrap-order,module bootstrap order>>
. in installer order (according to `@Order` annotations on the installer class)

WARNING: Installers without an `@Order` annotation behave as if they have an order index of *0*.
In that case the installer registration order will be used as a fallback, with installers specified through `getInstallers()` having a higher precedence.

[[installer-datasource]]
[#installer-datasource]
[discrete]
=== Datasources and installers
An `AcrossContext` requires at least one datasource if modules need to run installers.
Certain core features like the `DistributedLockRepository` also require the core schema to be installed and will require a valid datasource to be configured.

The main datasource is available for all modules as a bean named `acrossDataSource`.
Optionally a separate installer datasource can be configured that will be available as `acrossInstallerDataSource`.
If no separate installer datasource is specified, the default across datasource will be used.

IMPORTANT: A valid default datasource is always required for installers to run.
It is not possible to configure only an installer datasource as the distributed locking mechanism uses the default datasource.

The installer datasource is the default datasource used for all `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller` instances.

[[installer-applicationcontext]]
[#installer-applicationcontext]
[discrete]
=== Installer ApplicationContext
If installers need to be run for a module, a specific `ApplicationContext` is created in which the installers will be wired as beans.
This `ApplicationContext` can exist before the actual module `ApplicationContext` does.
However, all beans from the parent Across context and the module context - when created - are available in installers.

Installer contexts are temporary, once the Across context has bootstrapped they are closed.
Configuration and other annotated classes can be added to the installer context by using `ApplicationContextConfigurer` implementations, either on the `AcrossContext` or on an `AcrossModule`.

By default, the package *installers.config* relative to the module package will be scanned for beans to be added to the installer `ApplicationContext`.

.Example using different datasource inside the modules
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
@Configuration
class Config implements AcrossContextConfigurer
{
    /**
     * Installer tracking will be done on this datasource.
     */
    @Bean
    public EmbeddedDatabase acrossDataSource() {
        return new EmbeddedDatabaseBuilder()
                .setType( EmbeddedDatabaseType.HSQL )
                .setName( "core" )
                .build();
    }

    @Bean
    public EmbeddedDatabase moduleDataSource() {
        return new EmbeddedDatabaseBuilder()
                .setType( EmbeddedDatabaseType.HSQL )
                .setName( "data" )
                .build();
    }

    @Override
    public void configure( AcrossContext context ) {
        ProvidedBeansMap beans = new ProvidedBeansMap();
        beans.put( AcrossContext.DATASOURCE, new PrimarySingletonBean( moduleDataSource() ) );
        beans.put( AcrossContext.INSTALLER_DATASOURCE, moduleDataSource() );

        context.addApplicationContextConfigurer( new ProvidedBeansConfigurer( beans ),
                                                 ConfigurerScope.MODULES_ONLY );
        context.addInstallerContextConfigurer( new ProvidedBeansConfigurer( beans ) );
    }
}
----

NOTE: The installer context has no web support as it is a direct implementation of `AcrossApplicationContext` but does not implement `WebApplicationContext`.

[[installer-conditionals]]
[#installer-conditionals]
Installers are registered as bean definitions in the installer `ApplicationContext`.
You can use any Spring `@Conditional` annotations to suppress installer execution, even if the run conditions are fulfilled.

NOTE: When registering bean definitions to the installer context, a good practice is to demarcate beans as `@Lazy`.
 In that case they will never get created if the installer conditionals fail.

[discrete]
=== AcrossLiquibaseInstaller
Across core comes with an `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller` class.
This is an abstract base class for executing liquibase XML resources.
Simply extending the base class and annotating as installer will execute an XML resource in the same package as the installer class against the installer datasource.

.Example using different datasource inside the modules
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
package my.package;

@Installer(description = "Liquibase installer", runCondition = InstallerRunCondition.AlwaysRun)
public class LiquibaseInstaller extends AcrossLiquibaseInstaller
{
    // Will execute the resource file 'my/package/LiquibaseInstaller.xml'
    // As liquibase has its own locking mechanism, we can safely always run (even though you should avoid this when possible)

}
----

[discrete]
==== SchemaConfiguration
An `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller` will use a `SchemaConfiguration` bean to configure its default schema and pass configuration properties.
A `SchemaConfiguration` for the current module will be looked up first, if none is found a default bean will be used if it exists.

The default `SchemaConfiguration` is a bean without any `@Module` annotations.
The presence of a `@Module` annotation marks that `SchemaConfiguration` as applying only for that particular module.

If no default or module `SchemaConfiguration` is found, the installer will continue without setting a default schema.

WARNING: Adding `SchemaConfiguration` beans to a context directly via a `ProvidedBeansConfigurer` erases the visibility of bean declaration annotations.

.Example of a configuration class defining some `SchemaConfiguration` beans
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
package my.package;

@EnableAcrossContext
@Configuration
public class SchemaConfig
{
    /**
     * AcrossLiquibaseInstaller in the QuotationModule will automatically pick up this SchemaConfiguration.
     * Liquibase scripts will run with 'MY_QUOTATIONS' as their default schema.
     */
     @Bean
     @Module( "QuotationModule" )
     public SchemaConfiguration userSchemaConfiguration() {
        return new SchemaConfiguration( "MY_QUOTATIONS" );
     }

     /**
      * This is the default SchemaConfiguration.
      * AcrossLiquibaseInstaller in other module will pick up this SchemaConfiguration.
      */
     @Bean
     public SchemaConfiguration defaultSchemaConfiguration() {
        return new SchemaConfiguration( "MY_SCHEMA" );
     }
}
----

.Fixing a default schema
Alternatively the `SchemaConfiguration` bean schema can be ignored and a default schema fixed on the `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller`.
This is done in the installer implementation through the `setDefaultSchema()` method.

.Example fixed schema configuration using `AcrossLiquibaseInstaller#setDefaultSchema`
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
package my.package;

/**
 * Liquibase script of this installer will run with 'IM_SPECIAL' as default schema.
 * Regardless of any defined SchemaConfiguration.
 */
@Installer(description = "Liquibase installer", runCondition = InstallerRunCondition.AlwaysRun)
public class SpecialSchemaInstaller extends AcrossLiquibaseInstaller
{
    public SpecialSchemaInstaller() {
        setDefaultSchema( "IM_SPECIAL" );
    }
}
----

[[installer-settings]]
[#installer-settings]
[discrete]
=== InstallerSettings
For advanced configuration, both `AcrossContext` and `AcrossModule` allow `InstallerSettings` to be set.
`InstallerSettings` can be used to set the action (eg. force executed, skip) to be performed for one or more installers or installer groups.

`InstallerSettings` accepts an `InstallerActionResolver` for determining install action at runtime.
Alternatively an installer can implement `InstallerActionResolver` that will be used in a second stage only if the original action is `EXECUTE`.

Please refer to the javadoc for more information.
