# Creating an Across Module

## Structure

The structure of an Across module is very similar to the structure of an Across application, like the ones generated by [Across Initializr](/start-across.foreach.be). To maintain clarity, we strongly advise you to include _modules_ in the artifact name and end with the name of your module. e.g. `com.foreach.example.modules.my` is the package of `MyModule`. Under com.foreach.example.modules we would then typically have the following sub-packages: _config_, _domain_ and _extensions_. 

Beans in the _config_ package are automatically picked up and scanned by our module. This is most often the folder where our global configuration is found as well. The `DomainConfiguration `class often has an `@EnableAcrossJpaRepositories` annotation to pick up the repositories present in the module.

The _domain_ package typically holds several subfolders in which our domain model is defined in a Domain-Driven Design fashion. It is often practical to have a marker class to refer to from for example our @EnableAcrossJpaRepositories annotation.

The _extensions_ package is a special one, just like _config_, where we usually put our configuration classes for other modules, a typical example is `AcrossHibernateJpaModule`. The Across Framework will by default look for `@ModuleConfiguration` classes within the config and extensions sub-packages.

In the end our module structure looks something like this

```
com.foreach.example.modules.my
    | config
     \ DomainConfiguration.java // global configuration
    | domain
     \ DomainMarker.java // marker class for our domain model
    | extensions 
     \ EntityScanConfiguration.java //moduleconfiguration for AcrossHibernateJpaModule
    \ MyModule.java // Module descriptor
```

So what's different with the structure generated by [Across Initialzr](/start-across.foreach.be)? It does not contain the package _modules_, but rather an _application_ package, which holds the above sub-packages and will be automatically scanned for beans.

## Module descriptor



## Scanning beans



## Integration



