docs/developing-applications/chap-application.adoc, before:

[[across-application]]
[#across-application]
=== @AcrossApplication
`@AcrossApplication` annotation can be used as an alternative for `@EnableAcrossContext` and `@SpringBootApplication` when defining an application.
In addition to default context configuration options, it also adds selected <<appendix.adoc#spring-boot-autoconfigure,Spring Boot autoconfiguration classes>> and enables <<dynamic-across-modules,dynamic modules>>.

Using `@AcrossApplication` is probably the easiest way to setup a simple (Spring Boot based) application backed by an AcrossContext.

WARNING: Using `@EnableAutoConfiguration` and Spring Boot starters directly with Across is currently not supported.
Only a selected number of starters have support directly built into Across.
See <<appendix.adoc#across-spring-boot,Across and Spring Boot>> for more background information.

[[embedded-servlet-container]]
==== Embedded servlet container
Using `@AcrossApplication` adds the necessary Spring Boot auto configuration classes for embedded servlet containers.
If you have for example *spring-boot-starter-tomcat* on the classpath, you can run an Across based application inside an embedded Tomcat using `SpringApplication`.

.Minimal example of a Spring Boot based Across application
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
@AcrossApplication(modules = { MyModule.NAME, MyOtherModule.NAME })
public class MyApplication
{
	public static void main( String[] args ) {
		SpringApplication.run( MyApplication.class, args );
	}
}
----

[[dynamic-across-modules]]
[#dynamic-across-modules]
==== Dynamic Across modules
Using `@AcrossApplication` on a class will automatically enable dynamic Across modules on that class.
Before bootstrapping the context, the configurator will attempt to find an application specific infrastructure, application or postprocessor module.
The name of the expected module is generated based on the name of the importing class.
If no module with that name can be resolved, the configurator will see if a child package is present relative to the package of the importing class.
Depending on the child package name, a dynamic module will be generated.

|===

|*Importing class* |MyApplication |MyConfiguration

|*Infrastructure module* +
package: _infrastructure_
|MyApplicationInfrastructureModule +
resources: myApplicationInfrastructure
|MyConfigurationInfrastructureModule +
resources: myConfigurationInfrastructure

|*Application module* +
package: _application_
|MyApplicationModule +
resources: *my*
|MyConfigurationApplicationModule +
resources: *myConfiguration*

|*PostProcessor module* +
package: _postprocessor_
|MyApplicationPostProcessorModule +
resources: myApplicationPostProcessor
|MyConfigurationPostProcessorModule +
resources: myConfigurationPostProcessor

|===

.Example package structure for application modules
[source,text,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
com.mypackage
  MyApplication.class
  application.config
    MyApplicationModuleConfiguration.class
  infrastructure.installers
    SchemaInstallerToRunBeforeAnyOtherModule.class
----

Disabling dynamic modules on an `@AcrossApplication` can be done through the *enableDynamicModules* attribute.

WARNING: Dynamic modules perform an automatic component scan of all their child packages with the exception of _installers_ and _extensions_.
If you want the default behavior of scanning only the _config_ child package, you must provide an `AcrossModule` implementation.

NOTE: If you want to manually add dynamic modules, please see the javadoc for `AcrossDynamicModulesConfigurer` and `AcrossDynamicModulesConfiguration`.

Commit message:

Refactored developing-modules.adoc to use developing-modules/index.adoc - Developing applications: @AcrossApplication (links to spring-boot autoconfiguration) + exclude attribute - Developing modules: @InstallerMethod

docs/developing-applications/chap-application.adoc, after:

[[across-application]]
[#across-application]
=== @AcrossApplication
`@AcrossApplication` annotation can be used as an alternative for `@EnableAcrossContext` and `@SpringBootApplication` when defining an application.
In addition to default context configuration options, it also adds selected <<spring-boot.adoc#spring-boot,Spring Boot autoconfiguration classes>> and enables <<dynamic-across-modules,dynamic modules>>.

Using `@AcrossApplication` is probably the easiest way to setup a simple (Spring Boot based) application backed by an AcrossContext.

WARNING: Using `@EnableAutoConfiguration` and Spring Boot starters directly with Across is currently not supported.
Only a selected number of starters have support directly built into Across.
See <<spring-boot.adoc#spring-boot,Auto-configuration support>> for more background information.
It is also possible to disable specific autoconfiguration classes using the *exclude* attribute on @AcrossApplication.

[[embedded-servlet-container]]
==== Embedded servlet container
Using `@AcrossApplication` adds the necessary Spring Boot auto configuration classes for embedded servlet containers.
If you have for example *spring-boot-starter-tomcat* on the classpath, you can run an Across based application inside an embedded Tomcat using `SpringApplication`.

.Minimal example of a Spring Boot based Across application
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
@AcrossApplication(modules = { MyModule.NAME, MyOtherModule.NAME })
public class MyApplication
{
	public static void main( String[] args ) {
		SpringApplication.run( MyApplication.class, args );
	}
}
----

[[dynamic-across-modules]]
[#dynamic-across-modules]
==== Dynamic Across modules
Using `@AcrossApplication` on a class will automatically enable dynamic Across modules on that class.
Before bootstrapping the context, the configurator will attempt to find an application specific infrastructure, application or postprocessor module.
The name of the expected module is generated based on the name of the importing class.
If no module with that name can be resolved, the configurator will see if a child package is present relative to the package of the importing class.
Depending on the child package name, a dynamic module will be generated.

|===

|*Importing class* |MyApplication |MyConfiguration

|*Infrastructure module* +
package: _infrastructure_
|MyApplicationInfrastructureModule +
resources: myApplicationInfrastructure
|MyConfigurationInfrastructureModule +
resources: myConfigurationInfrastructure

|*Application module* +
package: _application_
|MyApplicationModule +
resources: *my*
|MyConfigurationApplicationModule +
resources: *myConfiguration*

|*PostProcessor module* +
package: _postprocessor_
|MyApplicationPostProcessorModule +
resources: myApplicationPostProcessor
|MyConfigurationPostProcessorModule +
resources: myConfigurationPostProcessor

|===

.Example package structure for application modules
[source,text,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
com.mypackage
  MyApplication.class
  application.config
    MyApplicationModuleConfiguration.class
  infrastructure.installers
    SchemaInstallerToRunBeforeAnyOtherModule.class
----

Disabling dynamic modules on an `@AcrossApplication` can be done through the *enableDynamicModules* attribute.

WARNING: Dynamic modules perform an automatic component scan of all their child packages with the exception of _installers_ and _extensions_.
If you want the default behavior of scanning only the _config_ child package, you must provide an `AcrossModule` implementation.

NOTE: If you want to manually add dynamic modules, please see the javadoc for `AcrossDynamicModulesConfigurer` and `AcrossDynamicModulesConfiguration`.
