docs/developing-applications/chap-across-events.adoc, before:

[[events]]
== Events
Modules in an Across application often use events to communicate with each other.
To this end, Across fully supports the Spring framework event listening features.

This chapter lists the most common event features, please refer to the {spring-docs}#context-functionality-events[Spring framework documentation] for all details.

=== Subscribing to events
The most common way to subscribe to an event is by simply providing an `@EventListener` annotated method.
A single object can have many listener methods.
All beans created in the `ApplicationContext` are automatically scanned for event listener methods.

.Example component with an event listener method
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,attributes"]
----
@Component
public class MyHandler {
    @EventListener
    public void handle( SomeEvent event ) {
        // Called whenever an event of type SomeEvent is published
    }
}
----

=== Publishing events
Publishing events is done via the `ApplicationEventPublisher` bean.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,attributes"]
----
@Autowired
private ApplicationEventPublisher eventPublisher;

public void sendEvent() {
  eventPublisher.publishEvent( new SomeEvent() );
}
----

=== Filtering events
Event listeners can subscribe to specific events only using one of several mechanisms.

.Setting a specific (base) class as the event argument on an @EventListener method
[source,java]
----
@EventListener
public void handle( SomeEvent event ) {
    // Called whenever an event of type SomeEvent is published
}
----

.Setting one or more base classes on the @EventListener annotation
[source,java]
----
@EventListener( {SomeEvent.class, SomeOtherEvent.class} )
public void handleEvents() {
    // In this case a method parameter is not actually required
}
----

.Using the SpEL condition attribute on the @EventListener annotation
[source,java]
----
@EventListener(condition = "#event.eventName == 'myEvent'")
public void handle( NamedEvent event ) {
    // Called if the event is of type NamedEvent
    // and property 'eventName' has the value 'myEvent'
}
----

.Using a generic event with type parameters
[source,java]
----
@EventListener
public void onPersonCreated( EntityCreatedEvent<Person> event ) {
    // Called if the generic type is a Person
}

// The event must implement ResolvableTypeProvider if it is not a specific class
public class EntityCreatedEvent<T> implements ResolvableTypeProvider {
    private final T entity;

    public EntityCreatedEvent( T entity ) {
        this.entity = entity;
    }

    @Override
    public ResolvableType getResolvableType() {
        return ResolvableType.forClassWithGenerics( getClass(), ResolvableType.forInstance( entity ) );
    }
}
----

=== Asynchronous listeners
You can use an `@Async` to handle events asynchronously.
This has some limitations, see the {spring-docs}#context-functionality-events-async[Spring framework documentation].

[[event-handler-ordering]]
=== Ordering listeners
Ordering of listeners is one of the aspects where an Across application differs from default Spring `ApplicationContext` behaviour.

When a module publishes an event, it will be received by all other modules in bootstrap order.
This means that event listeners from a previous module might handle the event before listeners from the module that actually published it.
By default, listener methods from the same across module do not have a specific order assigned.

The default ordering is reliable and works best for most use cases: you can rely on event listeners from previous modules having been executed before you.
Thus, listeners registered in your application module will usually fire last.

Once an event has been handled by all modules, it will be sent to the (optional) parent `ApplicationContext`.

WARNING: Events published directly from a parent `ApplicationContext` - for example directly from withing your `@AcrossApplication` class - will not be sent downstream to the modules!

Just like with other Across related ordering, you can influence the default behaviour:

* use `@OrderInModule` on your methods to order listener execution within the same module
* use `@Order` on your methods to suppress the default module bootstrap order and order listeners explicitly

Commit message:

AX-121 specify that async needs to be enabled for @Async event listeners

docs/developing-applications/chap-across-events.adoc, after:

[[events]]
== Events
Modules in an Across application often use events to communicate with each other.
To this end, Across fully supports the Spring framework event listening features.

This chapter lists the most common event features, please refer to the {spring-docs}#context-functionality-events[Spring framework documentation] for all details.

=== Subscribing to events
The most common way to subscribe to an event is by simply providing an `@EventListener` annotated method.
A single object can have many listener methods.
All beans created in the `ApplicationContext` are automatically scanned for event listener methods.

.Example component with an event listener method
[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,attributes"]
----
@Component
public class MyHandler {
    @EventListener
    public void handle( SomeEvent event ) {
        // Called whenever an event of type SomeEvent is published
    }
}
----

=== Publishing events
Publishing events is done via the `ApplicationEventPublisher` bean.

[source,java,indent=0]
[subs="verbatim,attributes"]
----
@Autowired
private ApplicationEventPublisher eventPublisher;

public void sendEvent() {
  eventPublisher.publishEvent( new SomeEvent() );
}
----

=== Filtering events
Event listeners can subscribe to specific events only using one of several mechanisms.

.Setting a specific (base) class as the event argument on an @EventListener method
[source,java]
----
@EventListener
public void handle( SomeEvent event ) {
    // Called whenever an event of type SomeEvent is published
}
----

.Setting one or more base classes on the @EventListener annotation
[source,java]
----
@EventListener( {SomeEvent.class, SomeOtherEvent.class} )
public void handleEvents() {
    // In this case a method parameter is not actually required
}
----

.Using the SpEL condition attribute on the @EventListener annotation
[source,java]
----
@EventListener(condition = "#event.eventName == 'myEvent'")
public void handle( NamedEvent event ) {
    // Called if the event is of type NamedEvent
    // and property 'eventName' has the value 'myEvent'
}
----

.Using a generic event with type parameters
[source,java]
----
@EventListener
public void onPersonCreated( EntityCreatedEvent<Person> event ) {
    // Called if the generic type is a Person
}

// The event must implement ResolvableTypeProvider if it is not a specific class
public class EntityCreatedEvent<T> implements ResolvableTypeProvider {
    private final T entity;

    public EntityCreatedEvent( T entity ) {
        this.entity = entity;
    }

    @Override
    public ResolvableType getResolvableType() {
        return ResolvableType.forClassWithGenerics( getClass(), ResolvableType.forInstance( entity ) );
    }
}
----

=== Asynchronous listeners
You can use a `@Async` to handle events asynchronously.
This has some limitations, see the {spring-docs}#context-functionality-events-async[Spring framework documentation].

Please note as well that asynchronous execution must be enabled in the module where you register the event listener.

[[event-handler-ordering]]
=== Ordering listeners
Ordering of listeners is one of the aspects where an Across application differs from default Spring `ApplicationContext` behaviour.

When a module publishes an event, it will be received by all other modules in bootstrap order.
This means that event listeners from a previous module might handle the event before listeners from the module that actually published it.
By default, listener methods from the same across module do not have a specific order assigned.

The default ordering is reliable and works best for most use cases: you can rely on event listeners from previous modules having been executed before you.
Thus, listeners registered in your application module will usually fire last.

Once an event has been handled by all modules, it will be sent to the (optional) parent `ApplicationContext`.

WARNING: Events published directly from a parent `ApplicationContext` - for example directly from withing your `@AcrossApplication` class - will not be sent downstream to the modules!

Just like with other Across related ordering, you can influence the default behaviour:

* use `@OrderInModule` on your methods to order listener execution within the same module
* use `@Order` on your methods to suppress the default module bootstrap order and order listeners explicitly
