docs/modules/developing-applications/pages/connecting-to-a-database.adoc, before:

[[across-datasource]]
[#across-datasource]
= Connecting to a database

On this page you'll learn:

* [*] How to connect to SQL databases
* [*] Using a local h2-file database during development.
* [*] How to configure multiple datasources for your application.

[[sql-databases]]
== Working with SQL databases
An Across application supports virtually all features of a regular Spring Boot application when it comes to working with SQL databases.
You can automatically create a `DataSource` instance by setting the right properties and adding a starter like `spring-boot-starter-jdbc` or `spring-boot-starter-jpa`.

.Example configuring a datasource bean
[source,properties]
----
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost/test
spring.datasource.username=dbuser
spring.datasource.password=dbpass
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
----

See the link:{spring-boot-docs}#boot-features-sql[relevant Spring Boot documentation] for an overview of the possible features.

=== Using an h2 file database
When starting from an application generated by link:{ax-initializr-url}[Across Initializr], an h2 datasource configuration is specified for the development profile.

.Minimal example application-dev.yml generated by Across Initializr
```
...
spring:
  datasource:
    url: "jdbc:h2:./local-data/db/demo-db"
    username: sa
```

When an h2 datasource is used for an Across Application, the `/h2-console` resource will be automatically configured for use.
The h2 console allows developers to quickly execute SQL queries on the contents of their local file database using the web browser.

image::h2-console-list-tables.png[Using h2-console to connect to the local file database]

To disable the h2-console, set the following property explicitly to false:
`spring.h2.console.enabled=false`

=== Using multiple datasources

It is also possible to configure multiple datasources to be used in your application.
We will first map the configuration properties to datasource properties, after which these properties can be used to create multiple `DataSource` instances.

.Example configuration properties for two separate datasources
```
app: # <1>
    datasource:
        articles:
            url: "jdbc:h2:./local-data/db/articles-db"
            username: sa-articles
            password:
        users:
            url: "jdbc:h2:./local-data/db/users-db"
            username: sa-users
            password:
```
<1> to avoid confusion with a single datasource configured through spring, we shall use the prefix app.

Once the datasource properties have been specified, the datasource beans can be created.

.Abbreviated example configuration of datasource beans in a multi-database setup
```
@AcrossApplication( modules = { DebugWebModule.NAME } )
public class DemoApplication {
    ...

    @Bean
    @ConfigurationProperties("app.datasource.articles") # <1>
    @Primary
    public DataSourceProperties articlesDataSourceProperties() {
        return new DataSourceProperties();
    }

    @Bean
    @Primary # <2>
    @ConfigurationProperties("app.datasource.articles")
    public DataSource acrossDataSource() {
        DataSourceProperties properties = articlesDataSourceProperties();
        return properties.initializeDataSourceBuilder().build();
    }

    @Bean # <3>
    @ConfigurationProperties("app.datasource.users")
    public DataSourceProperties usersDataSourceProperties() {
        return new DataSourceProperties();
    }

    @Bean # <3>
    @ConfigurationProperties("app.datasource.users")
    public DataSource usersDataSource() {
        return usersDataSourceProperties().initializeDataSourceBuilder().build();
    }
}
```
<1> The provided configuration properties for the datasource are mapped to a DatasourceProperties instance by using `@ConfigurationProperties`.
<2> The acrossDataSource bean will be the primary datasource, as such, we annotate it with `@Primary`.
The `@Primary` is used to specify which bean should be preferably wired, when multiple beans of the same type are available. +
The `DataSourceProperties` for the primary datasource are also marked with the `@Primary` annotation.
<3> An additional datasource is created, similar to the primary datasource.

WARNING: When using multiple datasources, one datasource has to be specified as the primary datasource to be used.

Now, to check whether these datasources are found by the application, `DebugWebModule` can be used.
When we navigate to the `/debug` path of the application, there will be a menu *Datasources*, with a submenu item *Overview*.
On the overview page, two datasources will be listed, as well as their metadata information.

image::debug-web-datasource-overview.png[Listing of datasources by DebugWebModule]

== The Across DataSource
An Across context supports the configuration of a `DataSource` instance.
If there is a primary `DataSource` or only a single `DataSource` bean available, Across will automatically use that one.

The datasource will be available for all modules as a bean named *acrossDataSource*.
Additionally a second datasource can be configured that will be available as the *acrossInstallerDataSource*.
If no separate installer datasource is specified, the default across datasource will be used.

.Installers
Across only needs a datasource if you want to execute installers or use the `DistributedLockRepository` directly.
The datasource is used to keep track of which installers have been executed.

////
=== Using JdbcTemplate
Currently not supported.

=== JPA and Spring Data
When adding `spring-boot-starter-data-jpa` a JPA `EntityManager` using Hibernate 5 will be automatically created and available in the application module.
The *application module package will be scanned for entities and Spring Data JPA repositories*, in the same way as described in the link:{spring-boot-docs}#boot-features-jpa-and-spring-data[Spring Boot documentation].

Default support is limited to the application module however.
If you are looking for JPA support for multiple (shared) modules, you should look at the link:{across-hibernate-module-url}[AcrossHibernateJpaModule].
Said module creates a shared `EntityManager` with a mapping context that other modules can extend.
It is also fully compatible with the default Spring Boot JPA support and can often be used as a simple drop-in replacement when switching from a simple application to having multiple modules with entities.

WARNING: When only using the `spring-boot-starter-data-jpa` the database schema will be created by default when using an embedded database.
When switching to AcrossHibernateJpaModule as a replacement, you will always have to specify the schema creation.

////

Commit message:

connecting to database - small revision

docs/modules/developing-applications/pages/connecting-to-a-database.adoc, after:

[[across-datasource]]
[#across-datasource]
= Connecting to a database

On this page you'll learn:

* [*] How to connect to SQL databases
* [*] Using a local h2-file database during development.
* [*] How to configure multiple datasources for your application.

[[sql-databases]]
== Working with SQL databases
An Across application supports virtually all features of a regular Spring Boot application when it comes to working with SQL databases.
You can automatically create a `DataSource` instance by setting the right properties and adding a starter like `spring-boot-starter-jdbc` or `spring-boot-starter-jpa`.

.Example configuring a datasource bean
[source,properties]
----
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost/test
spring.datasource.username=dbuser
spring.datasource.password=dbpass
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
----

See the link:{spring-boot-docs}#boot-features-sql[relevant Spring Boot documentation] for an overview of the possible features.

=== Using an h2 file database
When starting from an application generated by link:{ax-initializr-url}[Across Initializr], an h2 datasource configuration is specified for the development profile.

.Minimal example application-dev.yml generated by Across Initializr
```
...
spring:
  datasource:
    url: "jdbc:h2:./local-data/db/demo-db"
    username: sa
```

When an h2 datasource is used for an Across Application, the `/h2-console` resource will be automatically configured for use.
The h2 console allows developers to quickly execute SQL queries on the contents of their local file database using the web browser.

image::h2-console-list-tables.png[Using h2-console to connect to the local file database]

To disable the h2-console, set the following property explicitly to false:
`spring.h2.console.enabled=false`

=== Using multiple datasources

It is also possible to configure multiple datasources to be used in your application.
We will first map the configuration properties to datasource properties, after which these properties can be used to create multiple `DataSource` instances.

.Example configuration properties for two separate datasources
```
app: # <1>
    datasource:
        articles:
            url: "jdbc:h2:./local-data/db/articles-db"
            username: sa-articles
            password:
        users:
            url: "jdbc:h2:./local-data/db/users-db"
            username: sa-users
            password:
```
<1> To avoid confusion with a single datasource configured through spring, we shall use the prefix app.

Once the datasource properties have been specified, the datasource beans can be created.

.Abbreviated example configuration of datasource beans in a multi-database setup
```
@AcrossApplication( modules = { DebugWebModule.NAME } )
public class DemoApplication {
    ...

    @Bean
    @ConfigurationProperties("app.datasource.articles") # <1>
    @Primary
    public DataSourceProperties articlesDataSourceProperties() {
        return new DataSourceProperties();
    }

    @Bean
    @Primary # <2>
    @ConfigurationProperties("app.datasource.articles")
    public DataSource acrossDataSource() {
        DataSourceProperties properties = articlesDataSourceProperties();
        return properties.initializeDataSourceBuilder().build();
    }

    @Bean # <3>
    @ConfigurationProperties("app.datasource.users")
    public DataSourceProperties usersDataSourceProperties() {
        return new DataSourceProperties();
    }

    @Bean # <3>
    @ConfigurationProperties("app.datasource.users")
    public DataSource usersDataSource() {
        return usersDataSourceProperties().initializeDataSourceBuilder().build();
    }
}
```
<1> The provided configuration properties for the datasource are mapped to a DatasourceProperties instance by using `@ConfigurationProperties`.
<2> The xref:connecting-to-a-database.adoc#across-datasource[acrossDataSource] bean will be the primary datasource, as such, we annotate it with `@Primary`.
The `@Primary` is used to specify which bean should be preferably wired, when multiple beans of the same type are available.
The `DataSourceProperties` for the primary datasource are also marked with the `@Primary` annotation to ensure it is the default bean to be wired when ambiguity occurs.
<3> An additional datasource is created, similar to the primary datasource.

WARNING: When using multiple datasources, one datasource has to be specified as the primary datasource to be used as other modules may attempt to use the configured datasource (for example HibernateModule).

Now, to check whether these datasources are found by the application, `DebugWebModule` can be used.
When we navigate to the `/debug` path of the application, there will be a menu *Datasources*, with a submenu item *Overview*.
On the overview page, two datasources will be listed, as well as their metadata information.

image::debug-web-datasource-overview.png[Listing of datasources by DebugWebModule]

[[across-datasource]]
== The Across DataSource
An Across context supports the configuration of a `DataSource` instance.
If there is a primary `DataSource` or only a single `DataSource` bean available, Across will automatically use that one.

The datasource will be available for all modules as a bean named *acrossDataSource*.
Additionally a second datasource can be configured that will be available as the *acrossInstallerDataSource*.
If no separate installer datasource is specified, the default across datasource will be used.

.Installers
Across only needs a datasource if you want to execute installers or use the `DistributedLockRepository` directly.
The datasource is used to keep track of which installers have been executed.

////
=== Using JdbcTemplate
Currently not supported.

=== JPA and Spring Data
When adding `spring-boot-starter-data-jpa` a JPA `EntityManager` using Hibernate 5 will be automatically created and available in the application module.
The *application module package will be scanned for entities and Spring Data JPA repositories*, in the same way as described in the link:{spring-boot-docs}#boot-features-jpa-and-spring-data[Spring Boot documentation].

Default support is limited to the application module however.
If you are looking for JPA support for multiple (shared) modules, you should look at the link:{across-hibernate-module-url}[AcrossHibernateJpaModule].
Said module creates a shared `EntityManager` with a mapping context that other modules can extend.
It is also fully compatible with the default Spring Boot JPA support and can often be used as a simple drop-in replacement when switching from a simple application to having multiple modules with entities.

WARNING: When only using the `spring-boot-starter-data-jpa` the database schema will be created by default when using an embedded database.
When switching to AcrossHibernateJpaModule as a replacement, you will always have to specify the schema creation.

////
