docs/spring-boot/chap-official-starters.adoc, before:

:numbered:
===  Official Spring Boot starters
{spring-boot-docs}#using-boot-starter

:!numbered:
==== ActiveMQ
https://spring.io/guides/gs/messaging-jms/

Under investigation.

==== Actuator
https://spring.io/guides/gs/actuator-service/
[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|To be verified
|none
|===

Endpoints, metrics, health indicators from all modules will automatically be exposed and detected.

==== AMQP
https://projects.spring.io/spring-amqp/

Under investigation.

==== AOP

Under investigation.

==== Artemis

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Batch

Under investigation.
There is currently an Across standard module https://across.foreach.be/modules/SpringBatchModule that will most likely be discontinued in favour of auto-configuration.

==== Cache

Under investigation.

==== Cloud Connectors

Under investigation.

==== Data Cassandra
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-cassandra/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``CassandraAutoConfiguration``
* ``CassandraDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``CassandraRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``


[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data Couchbase
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-couchbase/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``CouchbaseAutoConfiguration``
* ``CouchbaseDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``CouchbaseRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|known issues
|===

Known issues:

* CouchbaseMock used for testing doesn't fully support spring data repositories

==== Data Elasticsearch
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-elasticsearch/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``ElasticsearchAutoConfiguration``
* ``ElasticsearchDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``ElasticsearchRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data Gemfire

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Data JPA

Under investigation.

==== Data LDAP
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-ldap/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``LdapAutoConfiguration``
* ``EmbeddedLdapAutoConfiguration``
* ``LdapDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``LdapRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data MongoDB
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-mongodb/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``MongoAutoConfiguration``
* ``EmbeddedMongoAutoConfiguration``
* ``MongoDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``MongoRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data Neo4j
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-neo4j/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``Neo4jDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``Neo4jRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data Redis
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-redis/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``RedisAutoConfiguration``
* ``RedisRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

[[spring-boot-starter-data-rest]]
==== Data REST

https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-rest/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``RepositoryRestMvcAutoConfiguration``
* ``HibernateJpaAutoConfiguration``, not included by default
* ``JpaRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``, not included by default

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|To be verified
|known issues
|===

Known issues:

* Integration with AcrossHibernateModule and AcrossHibernateJpaModule have not been reviewed yet.
* To use AutoConfiguration of ``HibernateJpaAutoConfiguration`` and ``JpaRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``
you need to add them manually to your across.configuration file.

==== Data SOLR
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-solr/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``SolrAutoConfiguration``
* ``SolrRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Freemarker

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Groovy Templates

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== HATEOAS

Spring Boot Data Rest includes hateoas, see <<spring-boot-starter-data-rest,Spring Boot Starter Data Rest>>.

==== Integration

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== JDBC

Under investigation.

==== Jersey

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Jetty

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``JettyEmbeddedServletContainerFactory``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== JOOQ

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== JTA Atomikos

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== JTA Bitronix

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== JTA Narayana

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Log4J2

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Logging

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``LoggingApplicationListener``

LoggingApplicationListener
[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Mail

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

.Autoconfiguration classes
* ``MailSenderAutoConfiguration``
* ``MailSenderValidatorAutoConfiguration``

==== Mobile

Currently not supported, to be investigated.
There is a https://across.foreach.be/modules/SpringMobileModule that integrates with AcrossWebModule to enable Spring mobile support.

==== Mustache

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Remote Shell

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|Will be deprecated in Spring Boot 2.0.0
|===

WARNING: This Spring Starter will be removed in Spring Boot 2.0.0 so hasn't been reviewed fully.

==== Security

Under investigation.

==== Social Facebook

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Social Linkedin

Under investigation.

==== Social Twitter

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Test

Fully supported.

==== Thymeleaf

Not supported.
AcrossWebModule configures its own Thymeleaf configuration for template support in modules.

==== Tomcat

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``TomcatEmbeddedServletContainerFactory``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Undertow

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``UndertowEmbeddedServletContainerFactory``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Validation

Under investigation.

==== Web Services

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Web

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|To be verified
|none
|===

==== Websocket

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``WebSocketAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|Requires the @EnableWebSocketMessageBroker provided by Across (com.foreach.across.autoconfigure.websocket.EnableWebSocketMessageBroker)

MessageBrokerRegistry in AbstractWebSocketMessageBrokerConfigurer will overwrite its settings when declared in multiple modules.

Full support to use basic WebSocket requests using WebSocketHandlers.
Requires the @EnableWebSocket annotation provided by Across (com.foreach.across.autoconfigure.websocket.EnableWebSocket)
|===

Commit message:

AX-181 document default validation support

docs/spring-boot/chap-official-starters.adoc, after:

:numbered:
===  Official Spring Boot starters
{spring-boot-docs}#using-boot-starter

:!numbered:
==== ActiveMQ
https://spring.io/guides/gs/messaging-jms/

Under investigation.

==== Actuator
https://spring.io/guides/gs/actuator-service/
[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|To be verified
|none
|===

Endpoints, metrics, health indicators from all modules will automatically be exposed and detected.

==== AMQP
https://projects.spring.io/spring-amqp/

Under investigation.

==== AOP

Under investigation.

==== Artemis

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Batch

Under investigation.
There is currently an Across standard module https://across.foreach.be/modules/SpringBatchModule that will most likely be discontinued in favour of auto-configuration.

==== Cache

Under investigation.

==== Cloud Connectors

Under investigation.

==== Data Cassandra
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-cassandra/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``CassandraAutoConfiguration``
* ``CassandraDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``CassandraRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``


[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data Couchbase
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-couchbase/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``CouchbaseAutoConfiguration``
* ``CouchbaseDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``CouchbaseRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|known issues
|===

Known issues:

* CouchbaseMock used for testing doesn't fully support spring data repositories

==== Data Elasticsearch
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-elasticsearch/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``ElasticsearchAutoConfiguration``
* ``ElasticsearchDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``ElasticsearchRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data Gemfire

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Data JPA

Under investigation.

==== Data LDAP
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-ldap/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``LdapAutoConfiguration``
* ``EmbeddedLdapAutoConfiguration``
* ``LdapDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``LdapRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data MongoDB
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-mongodb/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``MongoAutoConfiguration``
* ``EmbeddedMongoAutoConfiguration``
* ``MongoDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``MongoRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data Neo4j
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-neo4j/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``Neo4jDataAutoConfiguration``
* ``Neo4jRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Data Redis
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-redis/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``RedisAutoConfiguration``
* ``RedisRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

[[spring-boot-starter-data-rest]]
==== Data REST

https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-rest/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``RepositoryRestMvcAutoConfiguration``
* ``HibernateJpaAutoConfiguration``, not included by default
* ``JpaRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``, not included by default

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|To be verified
|known issues
|===

Known issues:

* Integration with AcrossHibernateModule and AcrossHibernateJpaModule have not been reviewed yet.
* To use AutoConfiguration of ``HibernateJpaAutoConfiguration`` and ``JpaRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``
you need to add them manually to your across.configuration file.

==== Data SOLR
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-solr/

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``SolrAutoConfiguration``
* ``SolrRepositoriesAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Freemarker

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Groovy Templates

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== HATEOAS

Spring Boot Data Rest includes hateoas, see <<spring-boot-starter-data-rest,Spring Boot Starter Data Rest>>.

==== Integration

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== JDBC

Under investigation.

==== Jersey

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Jetty

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``JettyEmbeddedServletContainerFactory``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== JOOQ

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== JTA Atomikos

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== JTA Bitronix

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== JTA Narayana

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Log4J2

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Logging

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``LoggingApplicationListener``

LoggingApplicationListener
[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Mail

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

.Autoconfiguration classes
* ``MailSenderAutoConfiguration``
* ``MailSenderValidatorAutoConfiguration``

==== Mobile

Currently not supported, to be investigated.
There is a https://across.foreach.be/modules/SpringMobileModule that integrates with AcrossWebModule to enable Spring mobile support.

==== Mustache

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Remote Shell

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|Will be deprecated in Spring Boot 2.0.0
|===

WARNING: This Spring Starter will be removed in Spring Boot 2.0.0 so hasn't been reviewed fully.

==== Security

Under investigation.

==== Social Facebook

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Social Linkedin

Under investigation.

==== Social Twitter

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Application support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Test

Fully supported.

==== Thymeleaf

Not supported.
AcrossWebModule configures its own Thymeleaf configuration for template support in modules.

==== Tomcat

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``TomcatEmbeddedServletContainerFactory``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Undertow

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``UndertowEmbeddedServletContainerFactory``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

==== Validation

Bean Validation 1.1 method validation is automatically activated in all modules.
A single `Validator` bean will be available by default.
In case of a web setup, it will also be registered as the *mvcValidator* bean.

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|none
|===

.Autoconfiguration classes
* ``ValidationAutoConfiguration``

==== Web Services

Currently not supported, to be investigated.

==== Web

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|To be verified
|none
|===

==== Websocket

Autoconfiguration classes:

* ``WebSocketAutoConfiguration``

[cols="1,1,4",opts=header]
|===
|Support level
|Status
|Remarks

|Full support
|Verified
|Requires the @EnableWebSocketMessageBroker provided by Across (com.foreach.across.autoconfigure.websocket.EnableWebSocketMessageBroker)

MessageBrokerRegistry in AbstractWebSocketMessageBrokerConfigurer will overwrite its settings when declared in multiple modules.

Full support to use basic WebSocket requests using WebSocketHandlers.
Requires the @EnableWebSocket annotation provided by Across (com.foreach.across.autoconfigure.websocket.EnableWebSocket)
|===
